Hey Bridgestown family, Bethany here.
I wanted to take a moment to invite you to Bridgestown's eighth annual Holy Spirit Conference on January 23rd and 24th at Portland's Keller Auditorium.
The theme of this year's conference is the healing after the healing.
And we'll be exploring how the miraculous work of the Holy Spirit is often just the first step to deeper, slower soul level healing.
Like the man-born blind in John 9, every part of us that God heals only exposes a deeper part of us awaiting healing from the same God, and the deepest healing is often the slowest kind.
We are so excited to be joined by contributors like Ruth Haley Barton, Kurt Thompson, Ken Chigamatsu, and Brooke Legitwood.
Livestream tickets are available now at HolySpiritCode.me.
I hope you can join us.
Our passages are out of Luke in chapter 10 and chapter 18.
Chapter 10 starting in verse 25.
On one occasion, an expert in the law stood up to test Jesus.
Teacher, he asked, what must I do to inherit eternal life?
What is written in the law?
He replied, how do you read it?
He answered, love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, and with all your mind, and love your neighbor as yourself.
You have answered correctly, Jesus replied, do this, and you will live.
But he wanted to justify himself, so he asked Jesus, and who was my neighbor?
In reply, Jesus said, a man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho when he was attacked by robbers.
They stripped him of his clothes, beat him, and went away leaving him half dead.
A priest happened to be going down the same road, and when he saw the man, he passed by on the other side.
So to a Levite, when he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the other side.
But a Samaritan, as he traveled, came where the man was.
And when he saw him, he took pity on him.
He went to him and bandaged his wounds, pouring on oil and wine.
Then he put the man on his own donkey, brought him to an inn, and took care of him.
The next day, he took out to Daenerai, and gave them to the innkeeper.
Look after him, he said.
And when I return, I will reimburse you for any extra expense you may have.
Which of these three do you think was a neighbor to the man who fell into the hand of robbers?
The expert in the law replied,
the one who had mercy on him.
Jesus told him, go and do likewise.
Enough lip a couple pages to Luke 18.
To some who were confident of their own righteousness and looked down on everyone else, Jesus told this parable.
Two men went up to the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector.
The Pharisee
stood by himself and prayed, God, I thank you that I'm not like other people, robbers, evil doers, adulterers, or even like this tax collector, I fast twice a week and give a tenth of all I get.
But the tax collector stood at a distance.
He would not even look up to heaven, but beat his breast and said, God, have mercy on me, a sinner.
I tell you that this man, rather than the other, went home justified before God,
for all those who exalt themselves will be humbled, and those who humble themselves will be exalted."
This is the word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
Several years ago, I was at the swimming pool on the first day of vacation.
I was coming off a particularly hectic season at work.
I'd said far too many yeses, and I'd got it all done.
I'd pulled it off.
but the collateral of all that was still living within me.
So I was overtired and emotionally drained and spiritually depleted, not my best self by any stretch of the imagination which everyone around me knew but I wasn't aware of, not quite yet.
That's the state I was in when I was there at the swimming pool on the first day of vacation and to make a very embarrassing story somewhat bearable.
I was getting all huffy and puffy because Kirsten, who had packed a picnic lunch for us to have at the pool, had forgotten my plastic fork.
Now, I wasn't flying off the handle or anything ridiculous like that, but I was irritated, like I was tense.
And tension has this way of just owning the atmosphere that it's in.
Sucking all of the air out of every environment that it occupies, doesn't it?
I'm sitting there on the edge of a public pool with my feet dangling in the water where my kids are happily playing and my wife is enjoying them and I'm infecting the air with this kind of tense agitation.
And it was then that Kirsten said something truly loving to me.
Tyler, I love you and I will always love you.
But I don't particularly like being around who you've most recently become.
It's rare for someone whose profession is talking to be left speechless, but that's what I was.
Not offended speechless, more like sobered, because when she said it, I realized something that I'm not sure I like being around who I'd most recently become.
You see, somewhere along the way and all those well-intentioned yeses,
I had lost my laughter and my playfulness and my ease.
I was a man on a mission, and that's good company if you're up for the intensity of a mission, but not such good company if you're just trying to play Marco Polo at the pool with a five-year-old or read a few pages of a novel before you turn in and either stay up a little bit too late watching one more episode of Shrinking.
Somewhere along the way, with the very best of intentions, I had lost my playfulness.
my ease, my silliness, and I'd started taking myself way too seriously.
And then the person in my life who knows me best and loves me most interrupted me in the midst of a plastic fork-driven poolside pout to very kindly but honestly hold a mirror up to me and show me who I'd become.
So we're picking up on our teaching series of prayer-shaped life.
Next Sunday, we're going to be joined by Faith Yuri Cho, who's going to lead us into the practice of ordering our days around friendship with God.
But first, up to this point, we have covered being with Jesus through the practice of silent prayer, becoming like Jesus through the practice of singing our prayers.
And up for today is doing what Jesus did through the practice of incarnated prayer.
Now, incarnated prayer is the practice of letting Jesus lead me where I do not want to go to become who I want to be.
That's going to make sense after we take a long walk with Jesus.
Near the end of Luke chapter 9, we read, as the time approached for him to be taken up into heaven, Jesus resolutely set out for Jerusalem.
And what follows is this 10 chapter section of Luke's gospel, which is framed entirely as the walk from Galilee to Jerusalem, which passes through Samaria along the way.
A long walk where Jesus tells a whole bunch of stories or what we normally call parables.
And every last parable in this 10 chapter section of Luke is entirely unique to Luke's gospel.
So check this out.
Luke,
records 10 stories Jesus told that Matthew, Mark, and John left out, all of them happening on this one long walk.
Jesus is walking to Jerusalem to die, and he is passing the time on this long road trip.
by telling stories to his disciples.
And we read two of those stories just a moment ago, one from the very beginning of this journey, and one from near the very end.
Two stories that reveal something essential about how prayer, which masquerades as the spiritual practice of retreating from the world, is in fact the essential spiritual practice that forms to send to people who do what Jesus did in the world.
Now the Good Samaritan is the first story that we read, and it's the most broadly well known of the stories Jesus tells in Luke's walk.
Walking the road from Jerusalem to Jericho, a notoriously dangerous route back in Jesus' day due to high crime, a man was mugged, left robbed, and bleeding on the sidewalk.
Then a priest walks by and passes on the other side of the street.
After that, a Levite comes along, which is a particular type of priest, and he sees him, but he pretends not to, and just passes by and gets along with his day.
In the world of psychology, there's mounting evidence that human beings are pre-wired to respond to one another's suffering.
That from birth, an infant, when they hear the crying of another infant will respond automatically with their own cries.
A baby who is perfectly contented at peace,
If they hear another baby crying, they will attempt to share in their distress in some way.
And in fact, as early as 14 months, a baby who hears the crying of another infant will actually attempt to actively intervene, to alleviate whatever is bothering them.
Meaning that to see a human being in distress and pass by, like the priest in Levi, who do so to the man on the Samaritan road, or like you and I might do,
when we see someone distressing the need on the street side in Portland, that's not just evidence of a lack of spiritual formation, theologically speaking.
It's actually evidence of human deformation, psychologically speaking, the loss of something inherent to your humanity to some degree or another.
Next is Samaritan, the ethnic less thans of Israel, who were thought to be spiritually misguided to put it very politely.
Next is Samaritan walked by, verse 33.
But a Samaritan, as he traveled, came to where the man was, and when he saw him, he took pity on him.
Now, the English word pity is the Greek spunkizo mind.
It's almost always translated compassion in the New Testament.
So this American doesn't make a single stop here.
He enters into this man's pain for a moment, and then he pays for his healing and rehabilitation very slowly over time.
And we know that he comes back to visit the man, remaining in relationship over time, not a transactional moment, but rather a kinship relationship of mutual love born from noticing and entering into a need in the moment.
The priest and Levite in the story, who saw need in a person but chose their convenience over compassion, they're suffering from what we commonly refer to as compassion fatigue.
Russia launched new deadly air attacks across Ukraine.
A multi-vehicle crash in Uganda involving buses and the lorry killed over 40 people.
A recent heist at the Louvre in Paris revealed holes in security in the museum director slated to testify in court.
Virginia Joffrey published a memoir detailing her accusations of sexual exploitation and abuse against Prince Andrew and Jeffrey Epstein.
Mosquitoes were found in Iceland for the first time, possibly due to record heat.
Those are the top global headlines in the news from the last seven days.
The powerless are being violently attacked by the powerful people riding the bus to work.
Kids on their way to school just had their lives snatched from them in an instant.
Precious art is being stolen in a real life oceans 11.
Women are being exploited and stripped of their dignity by men of privilege and status.
Oh, and there's a pretty strong chance the whole earth is melting.
Compassion fatigue is a condition born from constant interaction with human suffering
that is too big, too far, and too complex for me to enter into in any meaningful way.
Every last one of the headlines I just read you is a story about pain, headlines about suffering that's too far away, too complex to untangle, too big for me to carry on my shoulders.
So then what do I do?
You can let the needs of the world direct your attention to the needs of your world.
That's where you can start at least.
Compassion, that's the word Jesus uses to set the Samaritan apart in his story.
In our English word, compassion, if we trace it to its biblical roots, it comes from the Hebrew term Raham, which literally means to co-suffer.
It's linguistically tied to the Hebrew word for womb, as in a mother's womb.
The two are very closely related all throughout the Bible.
So according to the unfolding story of God, compassion is to take the needs of another and then carry them within myself.
for your burden to become my burden.
You're weeping, my weeping, you're hurting, my hurting, you're hungry, my hunger, your need, my need.
But compassion isn't just to take the pain of another person and carry it within myself and keep it there.
That's called empathy.
feeling what you feel.
Compassion is to feel what you feel in a regenerative sort of way that allows me to actually give birth to some form of new life in the world after I've carried your need for a time.
On the very heels of this story, Jesus tells another story, one that's joined to this one, illustrating prayer as borrowing bread from a neighbor to feed the people who happen to be under my roof tonight.
So prayer sends me out doing what Jesus did as far as the complete stranger by the roadside.
And prayer sends me doing what Jesus did as close as the common company in my home as I reach for bread to offer them.
The environment that I do what Jesus did isn't only in good Samaritan type chance encounters with strangers who become neighbors.
It's equally, in fact, maybe even mostly among people under my roof,
in my family, as common as my friendships in my local community.
The prayer principle that Jesus teaches in the Good Samaritan story goes like this.
Devotion to prayer is inseparable from devotion to others.
Prayer is both the place I cultivate intimate relationship with God and then from that foundation, prayer becomes the foundation for all of my other relationships.
for the way that I relate to and think about myself, the way that I interact with others, the way that I relate to family, friends, strangers, and neighbors alike.
If you know prayer merely as a ritual of escape, then you can revel all you want in the promises of God.
You can juggle the blessings He's given you in prayerful gratitude.
You can invite Jesus to shoulder the burden of your weekly anxiety, to deliver you from your pain, to forgive you for your wrongs, but you will never see the battered one by the roadside through prayerful eyes.
You will walk by whispering prayers for the plenty that God has given you entirely unaware that He has given you too much, also you'd have enough to share.
Prayer's not a ritual of escape.
It's a ritual of invasion on earth as it is in heaven.
That's how Jesus taught us to pray.
He taught us to pray with our eyes open to the needs of our neighbors, to pray with our ears and our lips first, absolutely, but the prayer that gets spoken is meant to become lived.
If we don't live the prayers that we speak, our prayers are revealed as hollow, fraudulent, counterfeit,
So how do I know if I'm praying like Jesus and not like the priest and Levite in this story?
How do I know if my prayer is the kind that pulls heaven down to earth and me and then spreads it over God's creation?
Or if for me, prayer is just a ritual of escape where I ask God to sponsor my plans and bless my preferences.
Here's an easy metric.
Does this prayer move me closer to another person in sacrificial love?
Praying in the will of God is the kind of prayer for another person that starts on my lips in seclusion and then moves my hands and feet to embody, to incarnate that prayer in active love for others.
So how do I know it?
If I'm using prayer as a self-serving ritual of escape, or if I'm using prayer as a selfless practice of formation, oh, that's easy.
Just be honest with yourself, is my prayer moving me closer to the needs of my neighbors?
Christian writer Evelyn Underhill says, it is useless to utter fervent petitions for the kingdom to be established and that God's will be done unless we are willing to do something about it ourselves.
Healthy expansion of the spiritual life depends on the balance struck between two movements, the direction of the soul's love and energy towards God and then towards other men.
Clinical psychologist and Jesus follower James Finley says, our union with others is essential to our union with God, and our union with God is essential to our union with others.
Each one properly pursued leads to the other.
Travis Monctomis Burton, we receive from God in the spirit, and in the same spirit, we return our love to God through our brothers.
And Henry Nowhan writes, a growing intimacy with God deepens our sense of responsibility for others.
Every church tradition and every monastic order in history has been built between striking the balance between two sets of spiritual practices, prayer and work, being with God and being with others.
Asking him to redeem my inner being by his spirit and then partnering with the same spirit and renewing all of creation.
Prayer shapes us over time.
into people of increasing Christ-like compassion.
And that doesn't mean compassion fatigue, where we are paralyzed by the pain of the world.
But neither does it mean compassion overload, where we take personal responsibility for everyone else's pain around us.
Jesus lived his prayers compassionately, but Jesus also only did what he saw the Father doing.
So then how do I know, how do I know where my prayers are sending me?
How do I live, not by compassion, fatigue or compassion overload, but by prayerful compassion?
Well, I would say this, just prayerfully sit with God over time, evaluating where do my resources and my neighbors need overlap?
Like what is God entrusted to you, materially and immaterialally?
And sure, all the things that you concretely have that you could share, but in addition to that, the gifts and talents that you possess, the opportunities and limitations of your life stage at present, the construction of your family, the home that you live in, the personality structure that you have, what has God given to you?
And where does that overlap with today's needs?
in the neighbors around you, right in that overlap.
That's where prayerful compassion comes alive.
That's how we live in the context of our city and in our ordinary lives by the spiritual rhythm that is grounded Jesus' apprentices from the very beginning prayer and work with God, with others, redeeming my soul, renewing the world, love of the Father poured it in, love for neighbor poured out in heaven,
on earth.
This is the breath of the spiritual life in heaven, on earth.
I inhale through prayer and I exhale as I incarnate those prayers.
Have you ever noticed that prayer isn't included in the biblical list of spiritual gifts?
Seems like a massive oversight, doesn't it?
We're told that God gifts people to be particularly effective and
sharing their faith with Jesus with another, to teach, to organize an order, to prophesy, to heal, to show mercy and the list goes on, but never once that God gives people to pray.
And you probably know some people who seem particularly gifted in prayer, don't you?
Or at least more committed to it than most everybody else.
It certainly seems like Paul forgot one of the gifts.
Unless, unless prayer is the breath of the Spirit,
not a gift of the Spirit.
Because no one's gifted to breathe, breath is just life.
It's what fuels every gift and talent you possess.
Without breath, everything else stops.
And that's what prayer is.
It's the breath of the spiritual life.
It is the source that gives life and vitality to every expression of the Spirit within every person who calls Jesus Lord.
And breathing involves exhaling.
Every bit as much as inhaling.
I just want to stop for just a second before we move on from here.
Who in this room is being addressed by the Spirit of God?
Who in this room, just as I've been talking, is being moved toward a hands and feet incarnated kind of prayer?
Do you feel a desire waking up in you?
Do you feel invited, compelled,
called to a life of inhaling and exhaling through prayer.
To find yourself in the days ahead, going where your prayers lead you, living in moments that first started in a prayerful imagination, having friendships that are so unlikely the only explanation is the compassion born in prayer.
If you do, then look, if you feel that desire waking up in you,
If you feel like you're doing more than listening to a sermon, but being awoken by the Spirit of the Living God, I want to ask you to do something.
It's going to take some boldness, but it's not going to take nearly as much boldness as actually living your prayers.
I just want to invite you to wherever you are to stand right now, because I'd simply love to pray for you before we continue on with the teaching.
Spirit of the living God, you are our helper, our comforter, our counselor.
And I pray in Jesus' name that you would be the helper of my brothers and sisters in the days ahead and that you would walk them right into moments they're standing in that started in the hidden place of quiet prayer just between you and them.
In Jesus' name, amen.
All right, let's move to our second story.
In this one, Jesus is describing two different people who are praying side by side.
One of them is a Pharisee, meaning he is
one of the most outwardly devout priests of his day.
The other is a tax collector, meaning he is one of the most outwardly unethical people of his day.
He had accumulated all of his wealth by partnering with the oppressor.
Only in Jesus' story, the Pharisee prays in a way that keeps God at a distance.
He touts his own spiritual scorecard but doesn't allow God to confront him with his own ongoing need for formation.
The tax collector on the other hand has a much less impressive spiritual scorecard, but allows God to confront him.
And that confrontation with God leads him to greater spiritual depth.
And that Jesus says is righteousness.
It is the willingness to allow yourself to be confronted by the spirit of God.
And then that confrontation be the inciting incident guiding you into greater depth.
Dr. Robert Mahal and Jr. in his brilliant book Invitation to a Journey says something a lot like this.
He says that the inciting incident of all spiritual formation is confrontation.
If indeed the work of God's formation in us is the process of conforming us to the image of Christ, obviously it's going to take place at points where we are not yet conformed to that image.
This means that one of the first dynamics of holistic spiritual formation will be confrontation.
So the way that we grow into the image of Jesus starts with the confrontational realization of where we are not currently like Jesus.
It's the conviction of the Spirit in that stunning moment of clarity or it's when a pattern that you can't seem to curb by your own willpower is addressed by God.
It's when new life circumstances and a new chapter of your life also bring about new awareness within you.
like the newfound freedom that comes with going to college, or the newfound intimacy in a marriage, or the need of children in your home, or the boredom of retirement suddenly confronts me with how indulgent I am, or how selfish I am, how impatient I am, how discontent I am, how attached I am, confrontation.
That's where spiritual formation starts.
But we can respond to the Spirit's confrontation one of two ways.
Being confronted by God doesn't effortlessly lead to depth because we get to decide whether that confrontation guides us to denial or to depth.
Confronted, I can deny my need for formation by blaming it on my outside circumstances or blaming the other people who are involved or both.
or I can deny my need for my own formation by just trying to fix my outer circumstances or fix the other people involved or both.
Denial is the willful ignorance of my own need for formation because when life is confronting me, I don't deny the need, but I assume that I can deal with the need outside of me rather than inside of me.
Depth is cultivated when life confronts me,
Like there's a broken pattern in me.
There's a rift.
I can't seem to fix in my marriage.
There's this theme that keeps coming up in my workplace.
There's an issue in my parenting.
There's an attachment I itch for every time it's taken away.
And then I respond by looking within and saying, oh, okay, Jesus.
Yeah, I see that.
I confess it.
And I ask for your help.
And you know where Jesus will lead those?
who when confronted choose depth, exactly where I thought I did not want to go.
See, depth is the journey of incarnated prayer.
It is letting Jesus lead me where I do not want to go to become who I want to be.
And now we're back where we started.
Several weeks ago, Morgan, who's an elder at our church and a business owner in our city and one of my very closest friends, Morgan was
sitting with me, talking about this nudge he was feeling to meet God in the needs of his neighbors.
But he was also confessing that that was going to require some real intention on his part, because just by nature of his life and his vocation, he tends to run in the social circles of the haves, not the have-nots.
And so Morgan's explaining all this, and I just suggested, well, why don't you pray?
Like rather than try to drum up God's invitation to you, why don't you just take this lung to God, name it to him and then see what he brings about.
That was Tuesday.
Morgan was over at my house for dinner that Friday and he was all wound up and excited and was like, Tyler, I've got to tell you what happened when I prayed.
It turns out that the very next morning, Morgan's sitting on his porch Wednesday morning.
This Bible open on his lap and a cup of coffee and he just prays, Lord, will you please walk me into one
friendship with one neighbor in need.
Why that prayer?
Because that was where his resources and the needs of his neighbors overlapped.
I can't do everything for everybody.
I've got certain limitations, certain opportunities, but one friendship that I really dedicate myself to.
I have capacity for that.
I think God's equipped me for that.
So he asked God for it, and then he's sitting there sipping coffee, reading scripture, and
Just a few minutes later, this dude from DeShevel looking dude across the street just makes a beeline, walks right up to Morgan's porch and says, excuse me, sir.
I'm living on the street right now, but I'm looking for work and I'm not on anything.
I'm not trying to swindle you here.
I just genuinely need help.
Do you think you could help me find some work?
And Morgan's like, are you an angel or a real person?
Louie and Morgan go on to exchange numbers and then a few days later, Morgan's on a business call on one end of the city and Louie texts him from the other and says, hey, I need a ride to Northeast.
Is there any chance that you could pick me up and help me out?
That's how Morgan ends up.
picking Louie up from underneath the highway overpass in the middle of the workday between appointments and then spends about an hour and a half in total getting him from here to there.
The two of them talking the whole way.
It was how prayer that began on Morgan's lips on the comfort of his porch led to prayer in Morgan's feet as Jesus through Louie led Morgan where he did not want to go.
led Morgan to a confrontation with need.
The need of his neighbor, sure, but his own need as well.
Because you see, prayer is the exercise of anti-control.
Some of us, we think prayer is how we exercise our agency.
It's not.
Prayer is how you exercise your surrender.
It is an act of willing disordered, not greater order.
Only by prayer does my neighbor actually become my neighbor and not just a violation of my autonomy.
or an interruption to my order.
Only by prayer does compassion even become possible.
So weeks later, as Morgan shared with me, the beautiful mess that Jesus through Louis had made of all of his control and autonomy.
He began to describe personal disordered attachments and affections that he had for certain badges of status and privilege that were all of the sudden just effortlessly peeling off of him.
He was confronted by God through prayer, and he could have chosen denial, but instead he walked through the other door, the one marked depth, and he described the freedom that he had tried to discipline and practice into his life through these disordered attachments for so long, and then all of the sudden that freedom was just being given to him through the most unlikely of sources.
Louis, the very person he thought he was supposed to bring freedom to,
And as he described all of this to me, both of us just wept and wept because Jesus through Louie was leading Morgan where he thought he did not want to go to become who he knew he most wanted to be.
And that is what it means to incarnate our prayers.
It just means that just as God who is spirit took on flesh, so do my spirit-saturated quiet prayers of listening and speaking, that they're meant to take on flesh to become embodied in my hands and feet.
An incarnated prayer will lead you exactly where the incarnation ultimately led Jesus, and that is to the cross, to die to yourself.
to a confrontation with all of your disordered attachments, and your misplaced affections, and your false identities that are robbing you of life.
And you can opt out of that process if you want.
You can hold on to all those things.
You can live in denial, or you can go where prayer is sending you.
And that is to depth.
As deep as a body, later in a tomb.
And for those who choose depth, we know what's on the other side.
It's resurrection.
It's life.
life in me and plenty of life to share with the world around me.
That is incarnated prayer, letting Jesus lead me where I do not want to go to become who I want to be.
Who in this room is being confronted by the Spirit of God right now?
Just as I'm teaching, something in your life coming to mind,
Have you confused prayer with agency, not surrender?
Do you love your autonomy more than your neighbor?
Are you asking Jesus to go with you where you want to lead him, not the other way around?
Who's being confronted by the Spirit of God right now?
Like a longing is waking up in you.
that I want to be led by the rod and staff of the good shepherd, exactly where I'm not sure I want to go, because only he knows how to make me who I want to be.
If that's you, if that's waking up and you eat, just stand.
I just want to pray for you before we move on.
How good shepherd lead us.
Lead us.
Green pastures and still waters and the value of the shadow of death.
All of it, all of it is good as long as we know your presence with us.
And so we surrender even the formation of our souls.
And we say, God, if I knew how to make me whole, I would have done it by now.
But I believe that you do Jesus.
So will you take me to that place?
In Jesus' name.
Amen.
So the practice for this teaching series is prayer and exercise that we're gonna engage this week as we gather around tables in our britishong communities is incarnated prayer.
We're gonna learn the mechanics of praying with our hands and feet.
Well, we've already been praying with our eyes, ears and lips, but for now I'll close here.
Tyler, I love you.
And I will always love you.
But I'm not sure I like being around who you've most recently become.
There I was at the pool on the first day of vacation all bent out of shape over a plastic fork.
And when Kirsten said that to me, there was love in her eyes not anger.
It was a confrontation.
But it was one I knew the second I heard it was coming from the Spirit of God through my loving wife.
You know, Jesus took one of his disciples on another walk after this long walk from Galilee to Jerusalem.
It was Peter.
After his resurrection, Jesus went and found him on a beach and took him on a walk.
Peter had denied Jesus and that Jesus showed up to confront Peter.
But when he confronted Peter, it was love in his eyes, not anger.
It was a confrontation inviting him to greater depth.
John 21, 18.
Very truly, I tell you, when you were younger, you dressed yourself and went where you wanted.
But when you are old, Jesus said to Peter, you will stretch out your hands and someone else will dress you and lead you where you do not want to go.
That's how he said it.
It's how he worded this loving confrontation.
And some false part of Peter died as he let Jesus lead him where he didn't want to go.
also that more of the fearfully and wonderfully made, God breathed and God knit part of Peter could live in this world.
And following that moment at the pool on the first day of vacation, Jesus took me on a walk like that one, like the one he took Peter on.
One where I'd lost some part of myself because somewhere along the way and all the well-intentioned yeses, I'd lost my laughter.
my playfulness, my ease.
And so I began to just pray this simple prayer every single day.
Oh God, please, would you recover my silliness?
I dropped it somewhere back there and I don't know how to retrace my steps to find it.
And I didn't tell a soul about that prayer.
For months and months, I prayed it.
And then the first time I got to go back to New York
see a really old friend.
I was catching up with him over coffee.
And as I was getting up to leave the coffee, he said, hey, man, if there's just one thing I could pray for you between now and whenever I get to see you again, what would it be?
And I was like, man, to be honest, I've never told anyone this.
But I pray every day that God would recover my silliness.
So I guess it'd be that.
And he was like, OK, got it.
Just over a week ago, I got to see him again for the first time since then, and we had coffee again.
And as I was getting up to leave, he said, hey, by the way, ever since I last saw you, I've been praying that thing about your silliness.
How's that going?
And I teared up when he asked me the question.
And I said, it has been the kindest, slowest work of God.
You see, my three-year-old Amos is obsessed with Nerf guns.
And look, don't start judging me right now, okay?
I don't think weapons of combat are good ideas for toys either, okay?
I don't condone gun violence.
I think my three-year-old's obsession with shooting his family members is absolutely morally and philosophically problematic.
But his uncle Felix apparently disagrees and took the liberty of introducing my children
to weaponry as a form of fun.
And look, I'll be honest, I can't stand the little foam darts all over my house.
And the way that Amos is always trying to shoot me while I'm doing normal household tasks and making them more difficult and his insistence on shooting them in the kitchen when we have a whole basement and blah, blah, blah, okay?
Anyway, at some point,
When I was asking God to recover my silliness, Jesus invited me to keep on praying that, but start praying it with my hands and feet.
And it was then that I realized, you know, that I have a three-year-old son who is desperate to nerf battle me.
And one day he's gonna grow up and he's gonna move out of our house.
And on that day, I will long for someone to shoot me directly in the left pupil with a foam era.
And so as far as it depends on me, I will not let the sun set on a single day.
One my three-year-old wants to shoot me with a Nerf gun.
That's how I ended up army crawling every evening on my hardwood kitchen floor, dodging darts in a battle for the ages that refuses to quit.
Every single evening, when I get home,
I hit the garage door and when Amos can hear it going up, I hear like his feet taking off running upstairs.
And when I enter the house, he rips his shirt off and goes, ah!
And it is on.
And he is ready to storm behind enemy lines.
And I'm ducking behind kitchen counters and crawling on my knees behind furniture in our home and everything like that.
And then dying a dramatic slow, painful death each and every evening.
And you know what, most days I don't feel like it.
When I get home, I feel a lot like I did that day at the pool.
Like I'm physically tired and emotionally drained and relationally empty and spiritually depleted.
But you know what, I do it anyway.
Because it's a way for me to pray with my hands and feet, what I started praying with my lips.
And Jesus,
Slowly but surely by the hand of my little three-year-old boy is leading me where I do not want to go to become who I most want to be.
I'm laughing more.
I'm living more lightly.
I'm taking myself a lot less seriously.
I'm much less preoccupied by the availability of plastic forks in my general vicinity.
God is recovering my silliness, my playfulness.
my ease, one Nerf dart at a time.
The most formative and essential spiritual practice in my life the last three or four years is Nerf battling my youngest son.
And that too, if you can bear to believe it, is incarnated prayer.
Why don't we stand?
Would you come Holy Spirit?
Thanks for joining the Bridgestown family as we engage in this teaching series.
To learn more about the life of our church and how you can get involved, visit bridgestown.church.com.
If you're interested in contributing financially to Bridgestown Church and to our ministry, you can do that at bridgestown.church.gov.
Wherever you're joining us from, we hope this resource blesses you and encourages you to be with Jesus, become like Jesus, and do what Jesus did.